  Character Creation

Step 1) Pick a Race and one Racial Trait
Step 2) Set-up Attributes and Archetype
Step 3) Pick a Background
Step 4) Pick your Skills
Step 5) Set-up Abilities and Spells
Step 6) Buying Equipments
Step 7) Personality and Flavor

  Setting Up Attributes

RampartRPG has 4 distinct attributes repressenting a variety of qualities which form the backbone of your character's skillset.

MIGHT [MGT]: Represents physical power. This ability is important for melee combatants, as it increases their damage as well as their health points. 
 Characters with a higher Might stat will also be able to use heavier equipment like two-handed weapons and heavy armor.
  
AGILITY [AGI]: Represents precision, quick hand movements and overall swiftness. Characters with high Agility excel at long and close range combat alike,
the Agility stat's increase to the chance of evading hits also allows for them to take one on one battles with ease.
Agility helps characters wield weapons that reward sharp and clear movements such as daggers or rapiers in the close range and bows or crossbows in the long range.

WILL [WIL]: Represents resolve, intelligence and perception. This will determine how well your character understands some of the concepts of the world you're playing, such as it's history or the monsters of the world.
This ability is also crucial for characters who rely heavily on their abilities to function, as increasing your Will, increases your maximum Stress and Stress is the main inhibitor of casting lots of abilities.
  
PRESENCE [PRS]: Represents social skills such as manipulation, intimidation and bartering. Presence will help with any social situation, which is where skill checks usually occur so whilst it may not directly help your characters in combat,
it could be helpful in getting them out of it.

When creating a character you are given 18 point to allocate across these 4 attributes.
Each attribute starts off with an 8 and increasing it by 1 costs 1 point until you hit 13.
Increasıng it from 13 to 14 and onwards costs 2 points per 1 until you hit 16.
Increasing it from 16 to 17 and onwards costs 3 points per 1.
At the end you will increase one attribute by 1 point according to your racial bonus.


