Initiative

In RampartRPG the game switches from Exploration mode to Combat Mode through the use of an Initiatve Roll
Initiative is used to determine which side goes first in combat and who specifically acts first.

When a combat scenario begans every character in each side rolls an initiative check. Initiative Check = D20 + [INT]
The character with the highest roll gets to act first. When they finish their turn they can choose someone from their own side to pass the turn to.
When the person they choose finishes their turn, they get to pick the person who's going to act next. They can not pick someone who has already had their turn.
When every character from one side has had finished their turn, the surviving person who rolled highest on the opposing side acts.
Similarly they pass their turns to characters on their side and so on and so forth.
When the opposing side finishes the loop simply restarts with the person who rolled highest on the initiative check.
They get to pick who goes after them again, they can choose the same character or a different character.

Surprise

If a party was attacked without their knowledge such as a surprise attack both sides still roll initiative.
The side which had the element of surprise goes first no matter what, the initiative roll's purpose is to decide who goes first in each side.
The characters with the highest respective rolls still act first when its their side's turn.

Late Joiners

If new combatants join an ongoing battle, they are simply added to the side they are fighting on without the need of an initiative check.
If its currently their side's turn, allies can immediately pick this new character to act after them.
If its currently the opposing side's turn, the late joiner must wait until the loop restarts and it's their side's turn to act again.

This system allows for tactical depth where players can discuss ideas, create combos and alter the fate of a battle.
Its also easier for both the GM and the players since the GM won't have their turn until all the players finish and vice verse.
Since sides aren't being interrupted it feels smoother for both parties.

