 #Player's Guide



 Role of the Player
Reading this book and getting familiar with the game rules should be a priority as a player.
Afterwards you should start off by creating your first character.

 Role of the Game Master
Reading this book and getting familiar with the game rules is also a priority of the game master.
Creating the world for your campaign, which should be done before playing.
Pay close attention to the Game Master's guide (Chapter A, pg. B) where creating a plan for the campaign is explained in more detail.


  Attributes
Attributes are used to determine a character's strengths and weaknesses. These four main stats are what determine who your character is and what they are honing their arts towards. (im over here honing my arts i got stats on my art rn)
 When you are creating your character you'll be able to pick what rank these stats start out as, the higher these stats are the higher your bonus is for matching skill checks.
 Here is a brief explanation of what each attribute represents:

MIGHT [MGT]: Represents physical power. This ability is important for melee combatants, as it increases their damage as well as their health points. 
 Characters with a higher Might stat will also be able to use heavier equipment like two-handed weapons and heavy armor.
  
AGILITY [AGI]: Represents precision, quick hand movements and overall swiftness. Characters with high Agility excel at long and close range combat alike, and even though they might not be able to take too many hits in combat,
 the Agility stat's increase to the chance of evading hits allows for them to take one on one battles with ease.
 Agility helps characters wield weapons that reward sharp and clear movements such as daggers or rapiers in the close range and bows or crossbows in the long range.

WILL [WIL]: Represents resolve, intelligence and perception. This will determine how well your character understands some of the concepts of the world you're playing, such as it's history or the monsters of the world.
  This ability is also crucial for characters who rely heavily on their abilities to function, as increasing your Will, increases your maximum Stress and Stress is the main inhibitor of casting lots of abilities. (?this sentence kinda sucks)
  
PRESENCE [PRS]: Represents social skills such as manipulation, intimidation and bartering. Presence will help with any social situation, which is where skill checks usually occur so whilst it may not directly help your characters in combat,
  it could be helpful in getting them out of it. (or into it, but with bonuses!) 


  Skill Checks
In order to accomplish tasks within the game, players and NPCs alike must go through a skill check. Not every task requires a skill check, tasks that would be guaranteed for the characters to achieve can be done without a check.
Making a skill check requires rolling a d20 and then adding the corresponding bonuses that your character might have. The bonuses are all based on the attributes which your character has. 
A skill check can be as difficult or as easy as the GM wants it to be, they will pick a number based on how difficult it should be for the average person in the world of the game to perform the action and the one performing.
This is called a difficulty class (DC for short) the skill check will try to surpass that number with the dice roll and added bonuses. Two (or more) characters can also perform a skill check against themselves, the highest result will win the skill check.


 Saving Throws


  Stress
Stress is an important mechanic for combat, so when building your character it's an important stat to keep in mind. Unfortunately though, because it's a combat mechanic it would be better explained in the combat section,
so in this section we'll simply cover the basics you need to know about Stress for character creation.
In Rampart, Stress is usually obtained when casting Magical Abilities, which have Stress costs attached to them. This makes Stress a highly important stat for magic users, especially in the early game, where they won't have too much WIL.
For further details on Stress and it's consequences on your character, please refer to Chapter C pg. D
