Introduction

  Welcome to Rampart! 
In this tabletop roleplaying game you will find a challenging yet rewarding combat experience filled with dangerous encounters and imaginative gameplay mechanics.
You are fully encouraged to customize your experience to your liking in this unrestrictive adventure as unlike most TTRPGs there isn't a clear world for Rampart, and there are no classes either. (further information on Chapter 3)
In order to fully maximize player freedom, the game offers no clear character roles and inspires players to create their own abilities.
It's a system that won't drown newcomers in an overload of information whilst keeping veterans engaged with enough complexity and variety.

 TTRPG Basics
In case this is your first time playing a TTRPG here are some basics to get you started.
Tabletop roleplaying games that are played by talking with a group.
In TTRPGs there are two roles, these being the players and the game master (GM), in each party there is one GM and the rest will be players. 
The game master's role is that of a storyteller, the players will make decisions and the GM will react to those decisions and create the world accordingly.
If you wish to learn more about the GM role and how to be a GM please visit Chapter 6 (pg. X) where the role is explained in much more detail.


  How To Use This Book
Chapter 1: Here you'll find basic information about the game's system, these are certain rules that everyone will adhere to, whether you're a player or an NPC (Non Player Character)
Chapter 2: In this chapter you'll learn how to create your player character after getting acquainted with the rules, this is the first place you'll want to go.
Chapter 3: Combat is introduced: basics on how to fight and how to design encounters for GMs.
Chapter 4: This chapter is about magic and includes a list of spells <??>
Chapter 5: This is a guide for GMs on how to better balance the game.
Chapter 6: A whole list of abilities, monsters, races etc. You'll be sent here a lot from other pages.


 The World
Rampart doesn't have a "true" world, meaning there is no default world that you start with, however we recommend that the world you create is set in a "Medieval Fantasy" setting, as some features like the weapons and the magic
work best in this type of world. If you wish to use a different kind of setting, you may need to change some features like the aforementioned weapons and magic to better fit your world. (or don't, i'm not your dad lol)
[text on how the world will be created]
You can find more details on Chapter 3 (pg. X)


  What You'll Need
A set of dice for tabletop games (There are also apps and websites to easily do this.), this game will most frequently require a 20 sided die (a d20) like a lot of other TTRPGs as it's used to accomplish just about any action that would pose any challenge
  however other dice will also be required for various tasks like calculating damage dealt etc.
A group of 3-5 people, this is the ideal number for Rampart and the game was designed with this type of group in mind, if you wish to play with any other number of people you may adjust the rules to better fit your party.
A printed character sheet will be useful as noting down certain things can make things easier. (The .pdf files of the empty sheet and battle maps can be found on ---.com)
Gridded battle maps will also make the experience better as it will be much easier to visualize combat this way. (The .pdf files of the empty sheet and battle maps can be found on ---.com)

