Skills

A skill is a task or topic which your character is extraordinarily good at, they have a wide range of uses
but the most important ones are [Skill Check]s. Every skill is inherently tied to an Attribute.
When a character attempts to do something if the task at hand is particularly hard the GM will ask for an [Skill Check].

Example:
-Character A attempts to craft a (Potion of Moderate Healing).
-The GM asks for a [WIL] [Skill Check] with a DC15. The DC is left to GM interpretations.
-The character rolls a D20 adds their [WIL] modifier and adds the bonus they obtained from a skill if its relavent such as (Alchemy) or (Crafting)
-The roll of the dice tells them their degree of success or failure which is again up to GM interpretation.

Every character by default starts with 3 trained skills, and they gain or upgrade a skill at levels 4 and 8.
These skills can be chosen from the list below or made up by the player and GM. The GM has to make sure that the skill isn't too specific or broad.
Your skills can be at 4 distinct tiers each giving a different amount of bonus to your [Skill Check]s, when a character doesn't specifically have anything to do with a skill its untrained by default:

Untrained: +0
Trained:   +2
Skilled:  +4
Mastered:  +6

List of Example Skills with Relavent Attributes:

  Might Based Abilities:
Athletics: The ability to endure prolonged feats of strength.
Intimidation: The ability to intimidate another.
Riding: The ability to ride another creature.

  Agility Based Abilities:
Stealth: The ability to sneak past enemies or hide.
Acrobatics: The ability to execute jumps, backflips, and safe landings.
Sleight of Hand: The ability to perform hand trickery and thievery.
Lockpicking: The ability to pick locks.

  Will Based Abilities:
Craft: The ability to craft items from resources.
Medicine: The ability to apply medical kits and first aid.
Alchemy: The ability to brew potions, poisons, and elixirs.
Survival: The ability to survive in the wild.
Navigation: The ability to find locations.
Forage: The ability to find food in nature.
Lore __ : Knowledge of a certain topic.
Perceive: The ability to perceive your surroundings.
Investigate: The ability to closely inspect closed spaces.
Insight: The ability to gather ideas about another.
Tactics: The ability to make strategy and plans for battle.
Spellcraft: The ability to craft scrolls.
Research: The ability to gather information from books.
Smithing: The ability to smith weapons and armor.

  Presence Based Abilities:
Persuade: The ability to persuade another.
Deceive: The ability to deceive another.
Intimidation: The ability to intimidate another.
Performance: The ability to perform musical instruments, dances, and such.
Disguise: The ability to make and use a disguise.
Perform: The ability to perform musical instruments, dances, and such.
Streetwise: The ability to converse with low society.
Diplomacy: The ability to form alliances and make agreements.
Animal Handling: The ability to make animals listen to you.




